# CA03 - Python Data Structures

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Instructor: George Khoury
	Revision: 1
	Last updated: 5-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Given the following list, `lst=[11, 100, 99, 1000, 999]`
   * Print the first and last elements.
   * Append the value `10000` to the list. Then append `9999` to the list.
   * Insert the value `2` at every even index in the list that is lower than `10`.
   * Print the list, then print the list sorted.
   * Count and print the number of times the element `2` appears in your list.
   * Print the sum of the values in your list.
2. Given a list, remove all duplicate element and create a tuple with the remaining values. Then find the minimum and maximum numbers in that tuple.
   * `list = [87, 45, 41, 65, 94, 41, 99, 94]`
   * `tuple = (87,45, 41, 65, 99)`
   * `min = 41 max = 99`
3. Given a sample dictionary, print if the value `200` exits.
   * `dictionary = {'a': 100, 'b': 200, 'c': 300}`
4. Unpack the following tuple then print the values `another_tuple = (10, 20, 30, 40)`.
5. Modify the value `22` inside the following tuple to `2222`.
   * `tuple = (11, [22, 33], 44, 55)`
6. Swap then print following two tuples.
    *  `first_tuple = (11, 22)`
    *  `second_tuple = (99, 88)`
7. Given two lists of equal size create a set which contains elements from both lists as tuples in the set.
8. Given two sets, checks if one set is subset or superset of the other set. If a subset is found delete all elements from that set. [Look at the docs for Python Set](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#set-types-set-frozenset)
9. Given a dictionary the following dictionary, `personal_info={"name": "Plato", "country": "Ancient Greece", "born": -427, "teacher": "Socrates", "student": "Aristotle"}`
   * Print when and where Plato was born.
   * Change Plato's birth year from B.C. 427 to B.C. 428.
   * Add the following item to the dictionary.
     * `"work": ["Apology", "Phaedo", "Republic", "Symposium"]`
   * Find and print how many keys there are in the dictionary.
   * Find and print the key with the **highest** value in the dictionary.
   * Find and print the key with the **lowest** value in the dictionary.
10. Given a tuple `my_tuple = ('a', 'b', 'c', 'd)`
   * Create a list for each element in the tuple, inside each list you should have the value repeated `n+1` times where n is the index in the tuple.
     * **Sample:** `b_list = ['b', 'b']` and `c_list = ['c', 'c', 'c']`
   * Join all of the lists together and print the final output.
     * `final_list = ['a','b', 'b', 'c', 'c', 'c', 'd', 'd', 'd', 'd']`

## Solutions

You can find suggested solutions to the problems above [here](./solutions/).