# PA05 - FlaskDo v2.0

> **Course**: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)  
> **Revision**: 2  
> **Last updated**: 30-12-2020  
> **Submission**: Submissions accepted until 06-01-2021 10:00am

For this practical assignment you will be building a ToDo list web application using Flask.

The learning objectives for the assignment are listed below.

*  Help you solidify your knowledge in the Flask and the basics of web application development.
*  Refresh your knowledge about OOP and the Python language.
*  Understand how to use forms, sessions, and additional Flask extensions.
*  Put your web design abilities to test using Bootstrap.

## General Notes

* Think about your data model. Use a paper and a pencil to design it.
  * You should design a simple [Entity Relationship Diagram](https://www.smartdraw.com/entity-relationship-diagram/).
  * You should design a simple [Class Diagram](https://www.educba.com/class-diagram/).
* Think about your (UI/UX) design, make sure it works well, and then looks good :).
* Document your code well, please write descriptive comments.
* You need to use SQLite3 to persist data for your application.
* Push your changes to a repository on GitHub when you are done, and submit the link on Microsoft Teams.
  * Remember to click the `Turn In` button :).

## Project Design

### Data Model

Think about how you are going to design you data model. Which models do you need? What are their attributes and methods?

For persistance we will use an SQLite3 database to store the data for our application. You can use DB Explorer to build your database and then export the schema. Think about your tables, fields, and data types needed for you data model. You can refer to your ERD to better understand which fields you need in each table. Remember to also set any needed primary and foreign key constraints.

### Business Requirements

Below you are provided a list of high-level business requirements for this project.

### User

* As a user, I am able to create an account providing a valid **username** and **password**.
* As a user, I am able to use my valid credentials to log into the application.
* As a user, I can edit my own profile to provide additional information like my **first** and **last** names.
* As a user, I am able to change my **username** and **password**.
  * **Hint:** Remember to check if the new desired username is already in use before changing the username.

### Task List

* As a user, I can create a new task list with a name I choose.
* As a user, I can create more than one task list.
* As a user, I can edit the **name** of any of my task lists.
* As a user, I can delete any of my task lists.

### Task

* As a user, I can create a new task with a **title**, and a **priority**.
* As a user, I can assign my task to any existing task list.
* As a user, I can edit the any of my tasks.
  * I can change the **title** or **description**.
  * I can change the **priority** and  **status**.
  * I can change the list this task list to which this task is assigned.
* As a user, I can delete any of my tasks.
* As a user, I can change the `status` of any task to any of the allowed statuses `(NOT_STARTED, IN_PROGRESS, DONE)`.
* As a user, I can change the `priority` of any task to any of the allowed priorities `(LOW, MEDIUM, HIGH)`.

### Extra Credit

* Add `last_updated` timestamp to your task lists and tasks. This timestamp should be updated whenever a task list or a task is updated.
* Implement a sub-task system. For every task, I can add new sub-tasks. Each should be displayed neatly in the task view.
* Implement sorting for your task lists and tasks.
  * Sort task lists alphabetically, or by most recently used, or by the number with the highest open tasks.
  * Sort tasks by their priority, status, or creation date.