# CA07 - Object Oriented Programing

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC5)
	Revision: 2
	Last updated: 11-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problem 1 -- Restaurant

* Define a class called `Restaurant`.
* The `__init__()` method for Restaurant should store two attributes: a `restaurant_name` and a `cuisine_type`. 
* Define a method called `describe_restaurant()` that prints these two pieces of information.
* Define a method called `open_restaurant()` that prints a message indicating that the restaurant is open.
* Create an instance called restaurant from your class. Print the two attributes individually, and then call both methods.
* Create **three different** instances from the class, and call `describe_restaurant()` for each instance.
* Add an attribute called `number_served` with a default value of `0`. 
* Create an instance called restaurant from this class. 
	* Print the number of customers the restaurant has served, and then change this value and print it again.
* Define a method called `set_number_served()` that lets you set the number of customers that have been served. 
	* Call this method with a new number and print the value again.
* Define a method called `increment_number_served()` that lets you increment the number of customers who’ve been served. 
	* Call this method with any number you like that could represent how many customers were served in, say, a day of business.

## Problem 2 -- User

* Define a class called `User`. 
* Define two attributes called `first_name` and `last_name`.
* Define and then create several other attributes that are typically stored in a user profile. 
* Define a method called `describe_user()` that prints a summary of the user’s information.
* Define a another method called `greet_user()` that prints a personalized greeting to the user.
* Create several instances representing different users, and call both methods for each user.
* Define an attribute called `login_attempts` to your `User` class. 
* Define a method called `increment_login_attempts()` that increments the value of `login_attempts` by `1`. 
* Define another method called `reset_login_attempts()` that resets the value of `login_attempts` to `0`.
* Create an instance of the `User` class and call `increment_login_attempts()` several times. 
* Print the value of `login_attempts` to make sure it was incremented properly, and then call `reset_login_attempts()`. 
* Print `login_attempts` again to make sure it was reset to `0`.

## Problem 3 -- Shapes

* Complete the code in [`Shapes`](./shapes/).

## Solutions

You can find suggested solutions to the problems above [here](./solutions/).