# CA09 - Think Like a Programmer

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Revision: 2
	Last updated: 21-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Ask the user for two integers (`x`, `y`) as input. Create a range using the `range(x,y)` then only print the positive numbers.
2. Use [list comprehensions](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions) in Python to return a new list `ages` using the list of birth years as input.
   * **Input:** `years_of_birth = [1991, 1990, 1990, 1988, 1992, 1990]`
   * **Return:** `ages = [29, 30, 30, 32, 28, 30]`
3. You are given a sentence as input. Return a list of all words of even length.
   * **Input:** `Print every word in this sentence that has an even number of letters.`
   * **Return:** `['word', 'in', 'this', 'sentence', 'that', 'an', 'even', 'number', 'of']`
4. Iterate over the `range(1, 100)` and print the numbers. However, if the number is a multiple of `3`, print `Fizz` instead. If the number is a multiple of `5`, print `Buzz`. If the number is a multiple of both 3 and 5, print `FizzBuzz`.
   * **Input:** None
   * **Print:** `1 2 Fizz 4 Buzz Fizz 7 8 Fizz 10 ...`

5. You are given a binary string (`001011001011`) as input, return a list of all substrings which start and end with a `1`.
   * **Input:**   `001011001011`
   * **Return:** `['101', '1011', '1011001', '101100101', '1011001011', '']`
6. Ask the user for a lowercase string (`s`) as input. Create a function called `check_palindrome(s)` which returns the longest substring which is palindrome.
    * **Input:** `"I love python.nohtyp evol I Python is never odd or even"`
    * **Return:** `"never odd or even"`
7. Ask the user for two lowercase words (`w1`, `w2`) as input. Create a function called `create_anagram(w1, w2)`. The only allowed operation is to remove a character from any string. Find minimum number of characters to be deleted to make both the strings anagram?
   * **Input:**
   * **Output:** 
8. Given two lists (`a` and `b`) of *any* size as input, return a list that contains only the elements that are common between the lists (without duplicates).
   * **Input:** `a = [20, 11, 23, 1, 26, 5, 22, 9, 19, 29, 8, 18]` and `b = [20, 25, 11, 26, 4, 14, 19, 27, 5, 18, 15, 6, 10, 22, 9, 21]`.
   * **Return:** `[5, 9, 11, 18, 19, 20, 22, 26]`
9.  Given a string with repeated characters as input, create a function `shuffle_well()` and return a rearranged string so that no two adjacent characters are the same.
    * **Input:** `aaabb` **or** `aa`
    * **Return:** `ababa` **or** "String cannot be rearranged."
10. Complete the implementation of the Binary Tree [here]()