# CA12 - Think Like a Programmer

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Revision: 1
	Last updated: 1-12-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Write a program that reads the lines from `sentences.txt` and displays only those lines that contain the word `name`.
2. Adapt the code above to count how often the word `jabberwock` (with any capitalization) occurs in the first 5 lines. Print only the number of occurrences of that word. Once it works, remove the count so that you count the number of occurrences of the word in the text as a whole.
3. Write a program that reads the contents of `sentences.txt` and writes exactly the same contents to the file `sentences.tmp`. Then open the file `sentences.tmp` and display the contents.
4. Write a program that adds up the sizes of all the files in the current directory, and prints the result.
5. The code below can generate several exceptions. These are now handled by a single try ... except clause. Extend this code by handling all exceptions that may occur explicitly (there are at least three different kinds of exceptions that can be raised). Note: Let me stress again that I rather have you avoid exceptions occurring than handling them, but in this case I want you to practice with exception handling.

```python
fruit_list = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]

try:
	num = input( "Please enter a number: " ) 
if "." in num:
	num = float(num)
else:
	num = int(num) print( fruit_list[num] )
except:
	print( "Something went wrong." )
```

6. Which exceptions can the code below raise? Extend the code to handle all of them in a reasonable manner.

```python
number_list = [ 100, 101, 0, "103", 104 ]

i = int(input( "Give an index: " ))

print(f"100 / {number_list[i]} = {100 / number_list[i]}")
```

7. Modify the code in `csv_file_io.py` to do the following:
   * Write more lines into the file based on user input.
   * Add a `Genre` column into the CSV file an populate the list with the movie genres.

8. Write a program to check if a given path exists in the current working directory. If it is found, then print the details of the path.
   * Type (directory / file).
   * Size in kilobytes, or megabytes.