# CA05 - Introduction to Functions

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC5)
	Revision: 2
	Last updated: 11-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Create a function `check_ten(n1, n2)` which returns a Boolean True if the sum of the numbers is 10.
2. Create a function `sum_ten(n1, n2)` which returns a Boolean True if the sum of the numbers is 10. Otherwise, return the actual sum value.
3. Create a function `first_upper(astring)` which returns the first letter in the string in upper case.
4. Create a function `last_two(astring)` which returns the last two characters as a tuple. If there are less than two characters, return the value "Error".
5. Create a function `seq_check(numbers)` which when given a list of integers, returns True if the sequence `[1,2,3]` appears somewhere in that list.
6. Create a function `compare_length(s1, s2)` which returns the difference in length between the strings.
7. Create a function `sum_or_max(my_list)`, given a list, if the length of the list is even return the sum of the list. If the length is odd, return the maximum value in that list.
8. Create a function which returns a list of all numbers between 1 and 50 that are divisible by 3.
9. Create a function which returns a list of all even number between x and y. Use the range() function.
10. Create a function which take a string as an argument, then prints a string where for every character in the original there are three characters.



## Solutions

You can find suggested solutions to the problems above [here](./CA05-solutions/).