# CA10 - Think Like a Programmer

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Revision: 2
	Last updated: 21-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Ask the user for an integer and then use a list comprehension to build a list with all even number smaller than `n`. Print the list to the user.
   * **Input:** `n = 10`
   * **Print:** `your_even_numbers = [0, 2, 4, 6, 8]`
2. You are given a 2D matrix as input. Write a function `transpose(matrix)` which computes and returns the transposed matrix.
   * **Input:** `matrix = [[1, 2, 3, 4], [4, 5, 6, 8]]`
   * **Return:** `matrix_transposed = [[1, 4], [2, 5], [3, 6], [4, 8]]`
3. You are given a list of words. Write a function called `find_frequencies(words)` which returns a dictionary of the words along with their frequency.
   * **Input:** `find_frequencies(['cat', 'bat', 'cat'])`
   * **Return:** `{'cat': 2, 'bat': 1}`
4. You are given a list of integers. Write a function `cumulative_sum(numbers)` which calculates the cumulative sum of the list. The cumulative sum of a list `numbers = [a, b, c, ...]` can be defined as `[a, a+b, a+b+c, ...]`.
   * **Input:**   `numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4]`
   * **Return:** `cumulative_sum_list = [1, 3, 6, 10]`
5. Write a function `ext_sort(filelist)`  which sorts and returns a list of filenames based on their **extensions**.
    * **Input:** `filelist = ['a.c', 'a.py', 'b.py', 'bar.txt', 'foo.txt', 'x.c']` and call `ext_sort(filelist)`
    * **Return:** `['a.c', 'x.c', 'a.py', 'b.py', 'bar.txt', 'foo.txt']`
6. Write a function `generate_flat_list(nested_list)` which flattens a nested list. The function returns the flattened list.
   * **Input:** `nested_list = [[1, 2, [3, 4]], [5, 6], 7]` and call `generate_flat_list(nested_list)`
   * **Output:**  `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]`
7. Write a function `generate_flat_dict(nested_dict)` which flattens a nested dictionary by joining the keys with the `.` character. The function returns the flattened dictionary.
   * **Input:** `nested_dict = {'a': 1, 'b': {'x': 2, 'y': 3}, 'c': 4}` and call `generate_flat_dict(nested_dict)`
   * **Output:**  `{'a': 1, 'b.x': 2, 'b.y': 3, 'c': 4}`
8. Write a function `find_max_sublist(numbers)` which returns the sum of maximum sub-list in a list of integers.
   * **Input:** `numbers = [-8, -2, 4, 6, 8, 4, 5, -3]`
   * **Return:** `27`
9.  Write a function `recursive_sum(numbers)` which returns the sum of the list.
    * **Input:** `numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`
    * **Return:** `15`
10. Complete the implementation of the Linked List [here](./linked_list)