# CA13 - Git Basics

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Revision: 1
	Last updated: 3-12-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Tracking a Guacamole Recipe

We will learn how to initialize a Git repository, how to track changes, and how to make delicious guacamole!

The motivation for taking a cooking recipe instead of a program is that everybody can relate to cooking without worrying about the complexity of code.

Let us start. One of the basic principles of Git is that it is easy to create repositories:

```sh
$ mkdir recipe
$ cd recipe
$ git init
```

That’s it! We have now created an empty Git repository.

We will use git status a lot to check out what is going on:

```sh
$ git status

On branch master

No commits yet

nothing to commit (create/copy files and use "git add" to track)
```

Now let us now create two files to keep track of our needed ingredients and instructions for the recipe.

1. One file is called `instructions.txt` and contains:

```
* chop avocados
* chop onion
* squeeze lime
* add salt
* and mix well
```

2. The second file is called `ingredients.txt` and contains:

```
* 2 avocados
* 1 lime
* 2 tsp salt
```

As mentioned above, in Git you can always check the status of files in your repository using `git status`.

**It is always a safe command to run and in general a good idea to do when you are trying to figure out what to do next:**

```
$ git status

On branch master

No commits yet

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	ingredients.txt
	instructions.txt

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```
The two files are untracked in the repository (directory). You want to add the files (focus the camera) to the list of files tracked by Git. Git does not track any files automatically and you need make a conscious decision to add a file. Let’s do what Git hints at and add the files:

```
$ git add ingredients.txt
$ git add instructions.txt
$ git status

On branch master

Initial commit

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)

	new file:   ingredients.txt
	new file:   instructions.txt
```

Now this change is staged and ready to be committed.

Let us now commit the change to the repository:

```
$ git commit -m "adding ingredients and instructions"

[master (root-commit) aa243ea] adding ingredients and instructions
 2 files changed, 8 insertions(+)
 create mode 100644 ingredients.txt
 create mode 100644 instructions.txt
```

Right after we query the status to get this useful command into our muscle memory:

```
$ git status
```

What does the -m flag mean? Let us check the help page for that command:

```
$ git help commit
```

You should see a very long help page as the tool is very versatile (press q to quit).

Do not worry about this now but keep in mind that you can always read the help files when in doubt. Searching online can also be useful, but choosing search terms to find relevant information takes some practice and discussions in some online threads may be confusing. Note that help pages also work when you don’t have a network connection!

## Git History and Log

To inspect the history of the repository we can use `git log`:

```
$ git log

commit d619bf848a3f83f05e8c08c7f4dcda3490cd99d9
Author: Redacted User <redacted@email.com>
Date:   Thu December 3 09:19:56 2020 +0200

    adding ingredients and instructions
```

* We can browse the development and access each state that we have committed.
* The long hashes uniquely label a state of the code.
  * They are not just integers counting 1, 2, 3, 4, … (why?).
* Output is in reverse chronological order, i.e. newest commits on top.
* We will use them when comparing versions and when going back in time.
* You can use `git log --oneline` to only show the first 7 characters of the commit hash and is good to get an overview.
* If the first characters of the hash are unique it is not necessary to type the entire hash.
* You can use `git log --stat` to show which files have been modified.

### Exercise: Commit Changes

1. Add the ingredient **1/2 onion** to `ingredients.txt`.
2. Add the instruction **"enjoy!"** to `instructions.txt`. 

**Do not stage the changes yet.**

When you are done done editing the files, you can use `git diff` to see the difference between the files.

1. Now stage and commit each change separately.
2. Check the repository history to make sure your changes are actually committed.
3. Use `git show <hash>` to inspect a specific commit.
4. Use `git diff <hash1> <hash2>` to inspect the differences between two commits.

## Git Cheatsheet

```
$ git init    # initialize new repository
$ git add     # add files or stage file(s)
$ git commit  # commit staged file(s)
$ git status  # see what is going on
$ git log     # see history
$ git diff    # show unstaged/uncommitted modifications
$ git show    # show the change for a specific commit
$ git mv      # move tracked files
$ git rm      # remove tracked files
```

## Test Your Knowledge

* Which command(s) below would save the changes of `myfile.txt` to the local Git repository?

1. ```sh
	$ git commit -m "my recent changes"
	```
2. ```sh
	$ git init myfile.txt
	$ git commit -m "my recent changes"
	```
3. ```sh
	$ git add myfile.txt
	$ git commit -m "my recent changes"
	```
4. ```sh
	$ git commit -m myfile.txt "my recent changes"
	```

* Which command below you would use to see what is going on in your repository?

1. `git status`
2. `git log`
3. `git diff`
4. `git show`

* Which command below you would use to initialize a new repository?

1. `git commit`
2. `git init`
3. `git add`
4. `git create`