# CA04 - Python Data Structures

	Course: Web Application Development Using Python (ICTC6)
	Revision: 2
	Last updated: 7-11-2020
	Submission Date: No submission required.

## Problems

1. Write a program which reads a number `(n)` from the user and the print the sum of all numbers between `1` and `n`.
2. Write a program which prints the following pattern for any given number, `n = 5`, for example.
   * 1 
   * 1 2 
   * 1 2 3 
   * 1 2 3 4 
   * 1 2 3 4 5
3. Write a program which prints the multiplication table of a given number (stop at 10). 
   * `Sample input: n=2`
   * `Sample output: 2x1 = 1, 2x2 = 4, 2x3 = 6, 2x4 = 8, 2x5 = 10 ... 2x10 = 20`
4. Given a list of numbers iterate over it and print numbers which are divisible by `5`. If you find number greater than `150` stop the exit iteration.
5. Given a list of numbers, reverse the list without using the `reverse()` method.
6. Given a string, get the length of the string without using the `len()` function.
7. Write a program which reads the age of 3 different people. Then print the oldest, and youngest between them.
8. Write a program which prints the absolute value of any given number `n` without using the `abs()` function .
9. Given two lists, create a third list by picking an even-index element from the first list and odd-index element from second.
   * `first_list = [3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21]`
   * `second_list = [4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28]`
   * `results_list = [6, 12, 18, 4, 12, 20, 28]`
10. Given two lists of equal size create a set which contains elements from both lists as a pair.
   * `first_list = [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]`
   * `second_list = [4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64]`
   * `results_set = {(2, 4), (3, 9), (4, 16), (5, 25), (6, 36), (7, 49), (8, 64)}`

## Solutions

You can find suggested solutions to the problems above [here](./solutions/).